# AI Model Gateway

A FastAPI-based multi-model AI gateway that provides a unified API interface for interacting with multiple large language model providers with streaming support.

This project integrates multiple LLM providers including DeepSeek, Qwen, GLM, and Kimi (Moonshot AI), and allows users to explicitly select which model to use through a single backend service.

The system is designed with a modular provider architecture, where each model is encapsulated in its own adapter layer, making it easy to extend new models in the future.

It supports OpenAI-style Server-Sent Events (SSE) streaming responses for real-time output and uses environment variables (.env) for secure API key management.

The current version focuses on explicit model selection rather than automatic routing, but the architecture is designed to support future enhancements such as intelligent routing, fallback mechanisms, and OpenAI-compatible API interfaces.

---

Supported models include DeepSeek, Qwen, GLM, and Kimi.

The backend is built with FastAPI and Python, using a clean separation between API layer, routing layer, and provider layer.

Each request is processed through a unified /chat endpoint where the client specifies the model name and message content, and the corresponding provider handles the request to external APIs.

Streaming responses are returned in real time using SSE format.

---

To run the project:

Install dependencies:

pip install -r requirements.txt

Configure environment variables in backend/.env:

DEEPSEEK_API_KEY=
QWEN_API_KEY=
GLM_API_KEY=
KIMI_API_KEY=

Start the server:

uvicorn backend.main:app --reload

The API can then be accessed via:

http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs

---

The system architecture follows a simple flow:

Client → FastAPI Gateway → Router Layer → Provider Adapters → External LLM APIs

Each provider is implemented as an independent module, allowing easy addition of new models without modifying the core logic.

The project also includes a streaming utility based on SSE parsing to handle token-by-token responses from different model APIs.

---

Security is handled through environment variables, and .env files are excluded from version control to prevent accidental exposure of API keys.

A .env.example file is recommended for sharing configuration templates.

---

Future improvements include:

- Intelligent model routing based on user input or task type  
- Automatic fallback between models  
- Token usage tracking  
- Rate limiting  
- WebSocket support for bidirectional communication  

---

This project is intended as a learning-oriented AI gateway architecture and can be extended into a production-ready multi-model orchestration system.
